you
now let's look at another behavior of
mixture model and in this case let's
look at their response to the data
frequencies okay so what you're seeing
now is basically the likelihood function
for the to word document and we know in
this case the solution is to give text a
problem in the 0.9 and the problem is
near point 1 now it's interesting to
think about a scenario where we start
adding more words to the document so
what would happen if we add many this to
the document now this will change the
game right so how well picture what
would the likelihood function look like
now well let's start with the likelihood
function for the two words right as we
add more words we know that we have to
just multiply the likelihood function by
additional terms to account for the
additional occurrences of them since in
this case all the additional comes out
there we're going to just multiply by
this time it's for the probability of
the and if we have another occurrence of
the width multiplied again by the center
and so on so forth and here we add as
many terms as the number of deaths that
we add to the document D Prime
now this obviously changes the
likelihood function so what's
interesting is now to think about the
how would they change out a solution so
what's the optimal solution now now
intuitively you would know the original
solution point 9 versus point one will
no longer be optimal for this new
function right but the question is how
should we change it well in general is
something 1 so in order to change it we
must take away some probability mass
from one word and add the problem with
the mass to the other world the question
is which word to have reduce the
probability and which world to have a
larger probability and in particular is
think about the probability of the
should it be increased to be more than
for the one or should we decrease it to
less than 0.1 what do you think
now you might want positive video
movement to think more about this
question because this has to do with
understanding of an important the
behavior of a mixture model and indeed
all the maximum likelihood estimator now
if you look at the formula for a moment
then you will see it seems that the now
the objective function is more
influenced by the name text before each
contributed one term so now as you can
imagine it would make sense to actually
assign a smaller probability for text
and lock it to make room for a larger
probability for the why because the Hat
is repeated many times if we increase it
a little bit it will have more positive
impact whereas a slight decrease of text
we have a relatively small impact
because it occurred just once right so
this means there is another behavior
that we observe here that is
high-frequency words generally where how
have high probabilities from all the
distributions and this is no surprise at
all because after all we are maximizing
the likelihood of the data so although
the more a word occurs then it's it's it
makes more sense to give such a word a
high probability because the impact
would be more on the likelihood function
this is in fact a very general
phenomenon of all the maximum likelihood
estimator but in this case we can see as
we see more occurrences of term it also
encourages the unknown distribution
theta sub D to assign a somewhat a
higher probability to this world
now it's also interesting to think about
the impact of probability of ceará sub B
the probability of choosing one of the
two component models now with being so
far assuming that each model is equally
likely and that gives us 0.5 but you can
again look at this like your function
and try to picture what would happen if
we increase the probability of choosing
a background model
now you will see those these terms for
the we have a different form where the
probability of that would be even larger
because the background has a high
probability for the world and the
coefficient in front of point nine which
is now qualified would be even larger
when this is larger the overall result
would be larger and that also makes it
the less important for theta sub D to
increase the probability for that
because it's already very large so the
impacts are here of increasing the
probability of the is somewhat regulated
by this coefficient 0.05 if it's a
larger on the background then it becomes
less important to increase the value so
this the baton this means the behavior
here which is high frequency words tend
to get high probabilities are affected
or regularized that some other by the
probability of choosing each component
the more likely a component is being
chosen it's more important that to have
high values for these frequent words if
you have a very small probability of
being chosen then the incentive is less
so to summarize we have just discussed
the mixture model and we discussed the
estimation problem of mixture model and
in particular we discussed some general
behavior of the estimate and that means
we can expect that our estimator to
capture these entities first every
confirm the component model attempts to
assign high probabilities for - frequent
words in the data and this is to
collaboratively maximize likelihood
second different the component models
tend to bet on about high probabilities
on different words and this is what
avoided competition or waste on
probability and this would allow them to
collaborate the more efficiently to
maximize the likelihood so the
probability of choosing each component
regulates the collaboration and
competition between the component models
it would
allow some component models to respond
more to the change for example of
frequency of data point in the data we
also talk about the special cases of
fixing one component of background water
distribution and this distribution can
be estimated by using a collection of
documents a large collection of Indian
English documents by using just one
distribution and then we were just to
have normalize the frequencies of tons
to give us the probabilities of all
these words now when we use such a
specialized mixture model and we show
that we can effectively get rid of
background words in the other component
and that would make the discovery topic
more discriminative this is also an
example of imposing a prior on the model
parameters and the prior here basically
means one model must be exactly the same
as the background language model and you
recall what we talked about in Bayesian
estimation and this prior would allow us
to favor a model that's consistent with
our prior and in fact if it's not
consistent we're going to say the model
is impossible so it has a zero prior
probability and that effectively
excludes such a scenario
this was also issue that we'll talk more
later